What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When I invoke git init to create a repository, a new directory called .git is
created in the working directory. This directory contains the meta data that is
need by git.

################################################################################
How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

Often a subset of changes in the working directory may be a meaningful
collection of changes that would ideally be recorded in a distinct revision.
The staging system provides an organized work flow to select the changes to
commit because doing this manually can be difficult. With the staging system,
the irrelevant changes in the working directory don't matter as much because all
changes must be staged before they are committed. Developers can select and
commit a meaningful sets of changes without mangling their working directory and
without inappropriate extras.

For people working with big team or on large projects, this probably reduces the
effort required to make a commit. Thus encouraging them to make more commits.
In addition, this probably improves the quality of commits because developers
don't need to setup their working directory so that it exclusively contains
changes relevant to a commit. Git forces you into a work flow that includes a
step for selecting changes because this is vital and requires consideration.

The staging area makes git harder to learn, and requires some additional effort
form users but it's included because it improves the quality of each reversion
and this outweighs the disadvantages. In fact, seasoned developers using other
version control systems probably adhere to a work flows that emulates git's
staging area. They might do their work in a directory separate from the one that
their version control system uses so they can stage meaningful changes and
contribute understandable revisions. Git just streamlines this work flow and
makes it approachable for everyone.

################################################################################
How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

The staging area is a tool for selecting changes before committing them. I can
select the changes that are logical with git add and then commit them with
git commit.

################################################################################
What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

This is my tool for trying stuff out. This lets me keep a seperate history for
each undertaking I make. Suppose I am refactoring and I realize that some big
architectural would make everything way better. I could create a branch for this
improvement and make lots of commits related to this effort without compromising
the stability of the master branch or polluting its history with the details of
this tangential effort.

################################################################################
How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

################################################################################
What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

################################################################################
What are the pros and cons of Gitâ€™s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?
